‎In 1950,
‎the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures was released.
‎“I have the extreme pleasure of releasing
‎“the New World Translation
‎of the Christian Greek Scriptures!”
‎This translation was unique
‎in that it restored
the divine name, Jehovah,
‎237 times in the main text
‎of the so-called New Testament.
‎But how could they do that,
considering that for centuries
‎many Bibles did not use Jehovah’s name?
‎And why did the divine name
need to be restored?
‎The oldest copies we have available
‎do not use the divine name
‎in the Christian Greek Scriptures;
‎they use substitutes like God or Lord.
‎Very early on,
‎the copyists of those original manuscripts,
‎they simply replaced
‎—they got into the practice of replacing—
God’s name.
‎We know that this is not a translation
‎because one is a name
and the other one is a title.
‎And it’s not even
a synonym for Jehovah, for a name.
‎Since the Greek Scriptures
‎were an inspired addition
‎to the sacred Hebrew Scriptures and,
‎in fact,
‎Jehovah’s name, God’s name,
‎was used some 7,000 times
in the Hebrew Scriptures,
‎the sudden disappearance
in the Greek text is inconsistent.
‎Even though
the New World Bible Translation Committee
‎believed that Jehovah’s name should appear
‎in the text of the Christian Greek Scriptures,
‎they also knew that at that time
‎virtually all Bible scholars
disagreed with that belief.
‎Those scholars argued
that by the time of Jesus,
‎even the Greek translation
of the Hebrew Scriptures, the Septuagint,
‎no longer contained the divine name.
‎So why would the writers
of the New Testament
‎use the divine name when their copies
of the Holy Scriptures in Greek
‎did not contain the Tetragrammaton?
‎This view was based on faulty information.
‎How so?
‎Did the Septuagint still use
‎the divine name in Jesus’ time?
‎Let’s consider one piece of evidence
‎that answers this question.
‎Something amazing happened in 1944.
‎A theological journal published a picture
‎of a Greek Septuagint fragment
‎from the Papyrus Fouad 266 collection.
‎Now, inside that fragment
there was the divine name.
‎In the Greek text,
you had the Tetragrammaton,
‎not just once but throughout.
‎Now, this fragment was very old,
dating back to the first century B.C.E.,
‎but the important point is
that this was proof, clear proof,
‎that the divine name was originally there.
‎Two Jehovah’s Witnesses were asked
‎to obtain photographs
of these fragments,
‎which were located in Cairo, Egypt.
‎The New World Translation Committee
was very interested in this
‎because they started translating
‎the Greek Scriptures in 1947.
‎After obtaining permission,
pictures of 12 of the fragments
‎were published in the foreword
of the New World Translation
‎of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
‎What amazes me about this is the timing.
‎When our brothers
—this New World Translation Committee—
‎did their research, before even translating,
‎suddenly something that was unknown
‎until essentially 1944
‎came to light that confirmed
‎that the eternal name of God
‎had to be revealed;
it could no longer be hidden.
‎It should be shown to everyone
who wants to worship Jehovah.
‎This careful preservation
supports what Jesus said in prayer
‎at John 17:26,
when he said to his Father:
‎“I have made your name known . . .
and will make it known.”
‎As Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we are proud to be “a people for his name.”
‎Knowing his name
is essential to knowing Jehovah himself,
‎and the fact that Jehovah
has provided this arrangement
‎through his people
‎makes it very clear
‎that he was gathering
“a people for his name.”
‎This is why
this Bible translation is so beautiful,
‎because it brings us closer to Jehovah.
‎Jehovah is not just a Lord somewhere,
which could apply to anyone,
‎but he is Jehovah, our God.
‎He extends his hand to us and says, well,
‎‘I’m Jehovah; call me by that name.’